Prerequisites
A maintained/supported version of CentOS (Docker doesn’t test or support outdated versions)
A user account with sudo privileges
Terminal access (Right-click desktop, click Open in Terminal)
CentOS Extras repository – this is enabled by default, but if yours has been disabled you’ll need to re-enable it
Software package installer yum
Installing Docker on CentOS 7 With Yum
Installing from Docker repositories using the yum command is the easiest and most popular method.

Step 1: Update Docker Package Database
In a terminal window, type:

sudo yum check-update
Allow the operation to complete.

Step 2: Install the Dependencies
The next step is to download the dependencies required for installing Docker.

Type in the following command:

sudo yum install -y yum-utils device-mapper-persistent-data lvm2
The –y switch indicates to the yum installer to answer “yes” to any prompts that may come up. The yum-utils switch adds the yum-config-manager. Docker uses a device mapper storage driver, and the device-mapper-persistent-data and lvm2 packages are required for it to run correctly.

The command for installing Docker dependencies on CentOS 7.
Step 3: Add the Docker Repository to CentOS
To install the edge or test versions of Docker, you need to add the Docker CE stable repository to your system. To do so, run the command:

sudo yum-config-manager --add-repo https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo
A command for adding the Docker CE stable repository to CentOS 7.
A stable release is tested more thoroughly and has a slower update cycle. On the other hand, Edge release updates are more frequent but aren’t subject to as many stability tests.

Note: If you’re only going to use the stable release, don’t enable these extra repositories. The Docker installation process defaults to the latest version of Docker unless you specify otherwise. Leaving the stable repository enabled makes sure that you aren’t accidentally updating from a stable release to an edge release.

Step 4: Install Docker On CentOS Using Yum
With everything set, you can finally move on to installing Docker on CentOS 7 by running:

sudo yum install docker
The system should begin the installation. Once it finishes, it will notify you the installation is complete and which version of Docker is now running on your system.


Step: 5 Manage Docker Service
Although you have installed Docker on CentOS, the service is still not running.

To start the service, enable it to run at startup. Run the following commands in the order listed below.

Start Docker:

sudo systemctl start docker
Enable Docker:

sudo systemctl enable docker
Check the status of the service with:

sudo systemctl status docker0
Output confirming the Docker service is active and running.
